README.adoc, before:

= Template for https://isaqb.org[iSAQB] Advanced Level Curricula

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

== Status 
image:https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master["CI"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/isaqb-org/advanced-template/master.svg["Last commit"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/isaqb-org/advanced-template.svg["Contributors",link="https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template/graphs/contributors"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues/isaqb-org/advanced-template.svg["Issues",link="https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template/issues"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/isaqb-org/advanced-template.svg["Issues closed",link="https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+"]


This is <<copyrighted,copyrighted work>>.

== Content
This repository contains a template for iSAQB Advanced Level *curricula* in AsciiDoc.

toc::[]

== How to contribute or participate
Create an issue, a merge- or pull-request

== How to use this template

. Either click on "Use this template" in the Github UI or Clone the repository - including the submodule:
+
--
[source,shell]
----
Via SSH:
git clone git@github.com:isaqb-org/advanced-template.git --recursive

Via HTTPS:
git clone https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template.git --recursive
----
--
. Rename the repository to the name of your curriculum e.g. `curriculum-flex`
. Rename the file `/docs/advanced-template.adoc` to the name of your curriculum e.g. `curriculum-flex.adoc` (this is later on referred to as `curriculumFileName`)
. Open the file `./config/setup.adoc` to adjust configuration specific to your curriculum:
.. `:curriculum-short: MODULKUERZEL`: this is the abbreviation of your module. Replace MODULKUERZEL with your module name e.g. FLEX
.. `:curriculum-name: MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE`: the full German title of your CPSA-A module. replace "MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE" with your module name e.g. "Flexible Architecture Models - Microservices und Self-Contained Systems"
.. `:curriculum-name: MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE`: the full English title of your CPSA-A module. replace "MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE" with your module name e.g. "Flexible Architecture Models - Microservices and Self-Contained Systems"
. Open the file `build.gradle` to adjust attributes specific to your curriculum:
[loweralpha]
.. `curriculumFileName`: the name of the asciidoc root file of your curriculum e.g. `curriculum-flex` (see above! The `.adoc` suffix is added automatically, omit it here!)
. Edit the file `document.version` and enter the version number this new version of the curriculum shall have e.g. "2020.1".
. Open README.adoc and replace the string `curriculum-template` with the name of your Github repository e.g. `curriculum-flex`
. Build the project with http://www.gradle.com[gradle] (you need a locally installed JDK) via `./gradlew`.
. Once the "BUILD SUCCESSFUL" is show, you can review the build result under `./build/index.html`

== How to write iSAQB Advanced Level Curricula with AsciiDoc

=== Requirements and (our) solutions

[cols="1,2a",options="header"]
|===
|Requirement
|Solution

|Visually appealing pdf output
|We created an iSAQB pdf theme, located under the `/style` directory. The original is maintained in the `adoc2pdf` repository.

|Multiple people contribute content, review and comment
|highly modularized content: Small chunks, like learning-goals or subsections, are contained in their own asciidoc-files.

|Multiple languages, at least EN and DE (i18n)
|Every piece of text is enclosed in _tags_ like `tag::EN[]`. The build process collects all parts for the desired language.

|Authors want to comment on specific parts of the text
|You can create a comment within every single adoc file by writing:

[source,asciidoc]
----
  // tag::REMARK[]
  Your comment goes here, with all styling and formatting options.
  You can even use language tags within the REMARK tag for multi-lingual comments.
  // end::REMARK[]
----

|Simple conversion from asciidoc to pdf (and html)
|There is currently one option available:

* Gradle based build, requiring a local Java runtime.
|===

- - -

**TODO:** Add explanation for keywords and general procedure when creating a new Advanced Level Curriculum.

- - -

=== How to organize files?

==== Prerequisite: AsciiDoc include
You should know some details about the AsciiDoc include statement.

If the Asciidoctor processor encounters a statement like the one below:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[]
----

It will replace this include statement with the contents of `file.adoc`. That's easy and straightforward.

But there's more. We can tell AsciiDoc what parts of a file shall be included via the `tag` syntax. See below:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42]
----

Now AsciiDoctor will include everything from `file.adoc` which is contained between the opening and closing of tag `X42`. Let's look into our `file.adoc`:

[source,asciidoc]
----
some content that will be ignored...

   // tag::X42[]
   this content will be included with `include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42]`
   // end::X42[]

and this content will be ignored again

   // tag::REMARK[]
   a comment from a reviewer that should be handled later
   // end::REMARK[]
----

You are thinking of using tags for i18n languages? Well done...


Now we're going one final step: We can enhance the include statement by *several* tags, so we can include multiple parts of a single file. I'll show the syntax and you know what I mean:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42;REMARK]
----

As you imagined, now both X42 and REMARK-tagged content will be included in the output.

=== Content and Structure files
As we are writing i18n we need to strictly distiguish between two
kind of files:

* *content* files, they contain text, tables or diagrams that shall be included in the output.
* *structure* files, containing only include-statements, configuration information. Structure files include both content-files and other structure files.

For content files, specific parts will be included via the tag-syntax described above.
For that purpose we define a variable named `include_configuration` in the file `config/setup.adoc`.

==== Structure File Example

In theory, you can just use the `docs/curriculum-template.adoc` as is and just
edit the section documents in the subdirectories. If you want to create your own file,
we recommend to stick with the following:

From `docs/curriculum-template.adoc` (excerpts):

[source,asciidoc]
----
= Template Curriculum: CPSA Certified Professional for Software Architecture^(R)^
:doctype: book

include::config/setup.adoc[]  // // <1>

:document-version: 2020.2 // //<2>

:sectnums!: // // <3>
include::00-preamble/copyright.adoc[{include_configuration}] // // <4>

<<< // // <5>
:toc:

<<<
:sectnums!:
include::00-preamble/00-introduction.adoc[] // //<6>

----

1. We propose to put the asciidoc configuration in this special file (`docs/config/setup.adoc`).
2. You can set a version, but it may be overridden in the build process.
3. You can turn section numbering on and off (here: off).
4. This includes parts of the `docs/00-preamble/copyright.adoc` file.
5. The `<<<` will create a pagebreak in pdf files.
6. Include the whole file 00-introduction.adoc.


=== Suggestions

TBD.

== How to build the documents

Prerequisite: You need a Java Runtime(tm) installed.

You build the output documents with gradle.
That will produce both pdf and html output in German (DE) _and_ English (EN), unless you modify the configuration.

In case you want to change that, adjust the following part of `build.gradle`:

[source,groovy]
----
task buildDocs {
  group 'Documentation'
  description 'Grouping task for generating all languages in several formats'
  dependsOn "renderNoRemarksDE", "renderNoRemarksEN", "renderWithRemarksDE", "renderWithRemarksEN"
}
----

In the task "renderNoRemarksDE", certain attributes (aka variables) are defined that configure the corresponding output.

== Additional translations/languages
include::docs-ext/EXTERNAL_DOCUMENTS_README.adoc[]

== Maintainers

This repository is currently maintained by Benjamin Wolf.
It was forked from https://github.com/isaqb-org/curriculum-template,
so the contributors of that project basically contributed to this one, too.


[[copyrighted]]
== Licensing and Copyright

include::LICENSE.adoc[]

Commit message:

Adopted template to nextnormal.academy CI

README.adoc, after:

= Template for https://nextnormal.academy[nextnormal.academy] Curricula

:toc:
:toc-placement!:

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

== Status 
image:https://github.com/nextnormalacademy/document-template/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master["CI"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nextnormalacademy/document-template/master.svg["Last commit"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/nextnormalacademy/document-template.svg["Contributors",link="https://github.com/nextnormalacademy/document-template/graphs/contributors"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues/nextnormalacademy/document-template.svg["Issues",link="https://github.com/nextnormalacademy/document-template/issues"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/nextnormalacademy/document-template.svg["Issues closed",link="https://github.com/nextnormalacademy/document-template/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+"]


This is <<copyrighted,copyrighted work>>.

== Content
This repository contains a template for nextnormal.academy *curricula* in AsciiDoc.

toc::[]

== How to contribute or participate
Create an issue, a merge- or pull-request

== How to use this template

. Either click on "Use this template" in the Github UI or Clone the repository - including the submodule:
+
--
[source,shell]
----
Via SSH:
git clone git@github.com:nextnormalacademy/document-template.git --recursive

Via HTTPS:
git clone https://github.com/nextnormalacademy/document-template.git --recursive
----
--
. Rename the repository to the name of your curriculum e.g. `apo-curriculum`
. Rename the file `/docs/document-template.adoc` to the name of your curriculum e.g. `apo-curriculum.adoc` (this is later on referred to as `curriculumFileName`)
. Open the file `./config/setup.adoc` to adjust configuration specific to your curriculum:
.. `:curriculum-short: MODULKUERZEL`: this is the abbreviation of your module. Replace MODULKUERZEL with your module name e.g. APO
.. `:curriculum-name: MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE`: the full German title of your CPSA-A module. replace "MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE" with your module name e.g. "Advanced Product Owner"
.. `:curriculum-name: MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE`: the full English title of your CPSA-A module. replace "MODULNAME IN VOLLER LAENGE" with your module name e.g. "Advanced Product Owner"
. Open the file `build.gradle` to adjust attributes specific to your curriculum:
[loweralpha]
.. `curriculumFileName`: the name of the asciidoc root file of your curriculum e.g. `apo-curriculum` (see above! The `.adoc` suffix is added automatically, omit it here!)
. Edit the file `document.version` and enter the version number this new version of the curriculum shall have e.g. "2020.1".
. Open README.adoc and replace the string `curriculum-template` with the name of your Github repository e.g. `apo-curriculum`
. Build the project with http://www.gradle.com[gradle] (you need a locally installed JDK) via `./gradlew`.
. Once the "BUILD SUCCESSFUL" is show, you can review the build result under `./build/index.html`

== How to write nextnormal.academy Curricula with AsciiDoc

=== Requirements and (our) solutions

[cols="1,2a",options="header"]
|===
|Requirement
|Solution

|Visually appealing pdf output
|We created an nextnormal.academy pdf theme, located under the `/style` directory. The original is maintained in the `adoc2pdf` repository.

|Multiple people contribute content, review and comment
|highly modularized content: Small chunks, like learning-goals or subsections, are contained in their own asciidoc-files.

|Multiple languages, at least EN and DE (i18n)
|Every piece of text is enclosed in _tags_ like `tag::EN[]`. The build process collects all parts for the desired language.

|Authors want to comment on specific parts of the text
|You can create a comment within every single adoc file by writing:

[source,asciidoc]
----
  // tag::REMARK[]
  Your comment goes here, with all styling and formatting options.
  You can even use language tags within the REMARK tag for multi-lingual comments.
  // end::REMARK[]
----

|Simple conversion from asciidoc to pdf (and html)
|There is currently one option available:

* Gradle based build, requiring a local Java runtime.
|===

- - -

**TODO:** Add explanation for keywords and general procedure when creating a new curriculum.

- - -

=== How to organize files?

==== Prerequisite: AsciiDoc include
You should know some details about the AsciiDoc include statement.

If the Asciidoctor processor encounters a statement like the one below:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[]
----

It will replace this include statement with the contents of `file.adoc`. That's easy and straightforward.

But there's more. We can tell AsciiDoc what parts of a file shall be included via the `tag` syntax. See below:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42]
----

Now AsciiDoctor will include everything from `file.adoc` which is contained between the opening and closing of tag `X42`. Let's look into our `file.adoc`:

[source,asciidoc]
----
some content that will be ignored...

   // tag::X42[]
   this content will be included with `include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42]`
   // end::X42[]

and this content will be ignored again

   // tag::REMARK[]
   a comment from a reviewer that should be handled later
   // end::REMARK[]
----

You are thinking of using tags for i18n languages? Well done...


Now we're going one final step: We can enhance the include statement by *several* tags, so we can include multiple parts of a single file. I'll show the syntax and you know what I mean:

[source,asciidoc]
----
   include::directory/file.adoc[tags=X42;REMARK]
----

As you imagined, now both X42 and REMARK-tagged content will be included in the output.

=== Content and Structure files
As we are writing i18n we need to strictly distiguish between two
kind of files:

* *content* files, they contain text, tables or diagrams that shall be included in the output.
* *structure* files, containing only include-statements, configuration information. Structure files include both content-files and other structure files.

For content files, specific parts will be included via the tag-syntax described above.
For that purpose we define a variable named `include_configuration` in the file `config/setup.adoc`.

==== Structure File Example

In theory, you can just use the `docs/curriculum-template.adoc` as is and just
edit the section documents in the subdirectories. If you want to create your own file,
we recommend to stick with the following:

From `docs/curriculum-template.adoc` (excerpts):

[source,asciidoc]
----
= Template Curriculum: CPSA Certified Professional for Software Architecture^(R)^
:doctype: book

include::config/setup.adoc[]  // // <1>

:document-version: 2020.2 // //<2>

:sectnums!: // // <3>
include::00-preamble/copyright.adoc[{include_configuration}] // // <4>

<<< // // <5>
:toc:

<<<
:sectnums!:
include::00-preamble/00-introduction.adoc[] // //<6>

----

1. We propose to put the asciidoc configuration in this special file (`docs/config/setup.adoc`).
2. You can set a version, but it may be overridden in the build process.
3. You can turn section numbering on and off (here: off).
4. This includes parts of the `docs/00-preamble/copyright.adoc` file.
5. The `<<<` will create a pagebreak in pdf files.
6. Include the whole file 00-introduction.adoc.


=== Suggestions

TBD.

== How to build the documents

Prerequisite: You need a Java Runtime(tm) installed.

You build the output documents with gradle.
That will produce both pdf and html output in German (DE) _and_ English (EN), unless you modify the configuration.

In case you want to change that, adjust the following part of `build.gradle`:

[source,groovy]
----
task buildDocs {
  group 'Documentation'
  description 'Grouping task for generating all languages in several formats'
  dependsOn "renderNoRemarksDE", "renderNoRemarksEN", "renderWithRemarksDE", "renderWithRemarksEN"
}
----

In the task "renderNoRemarksDE", certain attributes (aka variables) are defined that configure the corresponding output.

== Additional translations/languages
include::docs-ext/EXTERNAL_DOCUMENTS_README.adoc[]

== Maintainers

This repository is currently maintained by Gerrit Beine.
It was forked from https://github.com/isaqb-org/advanced-template,
so the contributors of that project basically contributed to this one, too.


[[copyrighted]]
== Licensing and Copyright

include::LICENSE.adoc[]
